All right, so let's go
with three more features of
functions in Python.
So it's better actually directly
to go onto the Blackboard or our
tutorial guide kind of a thing.
So the next one is hiding
implementation detail.
Now this is not something that we
want to protect something there are
other mechanism of protecting.
This is like somebody should not
be able to see what complexity
of the function is going on.
Once it's done, it should be done
how, how we are doing it, how we are
managing the complexity that should
be usually hidden by other people.
We have implemented our brain once.
We don't want to get again with that.
So let's go with this one.
This is another challenge that we
have is you are building a simple
app that registers the user.
We will do that later on as well.
It's fun.
You want to separate the concerns
and by the way, separations of
concern, you will hear that a lot.
This is a common software
design pattern as well.
Getting input, validating
it and saving it.
So there are three jobs
that we have here.
Get the input, validate the input
and save that to the database.
I don't know what that database is.
I really don't care.
Whenever I want to save some
information in the database, it
should be just a method available to
me with of course more information
that I can give it to you later on.
But let's go ahead and design this.
So let's call this one as hiding.
Let's close this.
This one is 03 and we'll call
this one as hiding py
all right, so what I need
to do step one, get the input.
All right, pretty simple.
We have done this kind
of example as well.
We'll call this one as get input.
It doesn't pass on any parameter.
That is totally fine.
We just want to have a definition
which says printing and I will
just say getting user, input.
User input might come from terminal,
might be a web page.
I don't really care about
the complexity of it.
Another one is validate the input.
There we go, nice and easy.
Now how the validation is being done?
Probably we are using regex,
also known as regular expressions
or any other Mechanism.
Don't really care about it, just want
to hide the complexity of it.
And I will just say
validating the user, info,
short for information.
And the last task is
save it to the database.
So let's define the method, call it
as save to db, short for database.
And we'll just go like this.
Don't really care if it is MySQL
MongoDB, whatever that is.
The job is, whatever the data,
you give it to me, I'll
just save it to the database.
I'll call this one as
saving to database.
So there we go, we have
separated the concerns as well.
Now, finally, let's try
to register a user as it
says write register user.
So let's call this one as
register, user, and again, this
is also a common pattern.
Sometimes you use underscore,
sometimes you use camel.
Cases.
No right or wrong.
Each one have their own way
of writing the things.
There is no right or
wrong in this case.
All right, the step
one, get user input.
All right, got it.
The step two, validate the data.
All right, let's validate the input
and then save it to the database.
Save it to the database and finally
says user registration complete.
Simple.
It is user registration complete.
All right, and then don't
forget to call this one.
Otherwise if you are not calling it,
that means you are not running it.
So register user.
Let's of course validate it
by running this.
So I'll just go ahead and say
Python 3 wants to run 03 hiding.
And there we go, getting the user
input, validating the user info,
saving to the database.
Saving to the database.
And finally saying that user
registration is complete.
Pretty good, isn't it?
So this is how you practice defining
the methods, and we are doing a lot
of practice by these examples.
Let's move on to the next one which
says improving the readability.
First of all, I need to improve this
by making this a little larger
one so that readability improves.
There we go.
And we can actually move
this just right there.
Looks good.
Now you sell different sizes of chai.
All right, Pretty good.
Instead of writing down formulas
everywhere, create a function.
What it does, it simply goes
ahead and says calculate bills.
You provide it cups and price per cup
returns the total bill.
Use the function for multiple orders.
This is a very, very
interesting problem.
Why?
Because it says return total bill.
So far whatever we are doing
is just a print statement.
The function itself prints something.
It doesn't return you anything back
you cannot hold.
Like whenever a function
returns anything that you can hold
in the variable because
that's being returned, but but so
far is just printing.
Printing and returning the value
are two different concepts.
Let me show you that.
So what do we call this?
Readability.
Yeah, that would be good.
Let's create a new one.
Call this one as 04readability.
Hope I wrote that correct.
If not, make sure you correct me up.
All right, so we simply Go
ahead and define a method that says
calculate bills or bill.
And what we expect is you
pass me a child that
how many cups are there?
So cups and we'll say price per cup.
Price per cup.
All right, pretty good.
Now based on the information,
we want to actually
calculate the total bill.
It's super easy math.
We can just simply take
the cups and go ahead and multiply
it by, price per cup.
Now you could have
formatted this as well.
Like I will just use
the printf formatted string.
But when we use the keyword return,
that means I don't want to print it.
Maybe you don't want to print it.
You want to store that
in the variable and do some
more processing on it.
That's totally okay.
So this one is never going to
automatically print anything at all.
Let me show you.
What does it mean by that?
So if I go ahead and say
calculate bill and I provide that,
hey, there are three cups
and each cup cost 15 rupees.
Let's try to run this.
This is the most important
part of the whole video.
And let's call this1 as Python 3
and this will say04 and run this.
Although we are calling it, we
have seen that in the last time
that when we call it, it prints
because we asked it to print.
This one simply says, hey,
we just returned the value.
So in such cases you can just
go ahead and create
a variable and hold this value.
So I will call this one as my
bill, just like this.
And we will hold this value
because it's returning me, it's
giving me a return value.
And then later on I can go
ahead and print this, my bill.
Because the instruction
now is to print bill.
If I run this again now we get
the 45, which is actually correct.
But because we asked it
to print, we never said that
the function will itself print.
Another kind of a thing that you
are going to get with this is
some people actually directly
use it inside the print statement,
which is also totally fine.
So let's just say I call it like this
and I will say order for table two.
And just like this.
And then, separated by comma, you can
actually call this method directly
here and provide the details.
For example, there were
two cups expensive T for 50
rupees just like that.
In this case, since we have asked
the order to be printed, it
just goes ahead and print that.
So I hope you got this.
There is a huge, huge difference
between, both of them.
And again both of them have
their use cases, their ways of
places where they can be used.
But remember, the return
is a very, very interesting
concept that we have.
All right, you got a lot of things
in this one last one that we have.
Definitely need to make it a little
bit bigger so that we can
see that easily on the screen.
There we go.
Looks good now.
So this one is for
improving the traceability.
Each one of your functions
should be traceable.
They should not be like your
logic should not be scattered
into thousand places.
So if you make a mistake in one
of them, you, you can fix it
at just one place and go with that.
And this is one prime example of it.
Your shop adds a 10% of VAT.
Now VAT is no longer kind,
of a thing in India, but I'm pretty
sure it is there in the Europe
and other countries as well.
But consider this like an equivalent
of GST or vat, whatever you think,
you just add some tax on it.
So 10% tax on every order.
You want this to be consistent
and traceable, right?
Add vat.
We have to give the price and what is
the VAT rate and use it to compute
the final price for three orders.
So we have to actually give
at least three examples for it.
And we will use loop for it.
We'll try to get our concepts
of loop again, let's call
this one as a new file.
We will have a 05
oops underscore trace py.
All right, so the step one is
let's create add vat as a method.
What it gives us is a parameter
price and the VAT rate.
Let's call the same.
You will give me price and VAT rate.
So whatever the price and VAT
rate you give me, I will just
go ahead and return this.
Not printed, but I'll
return the order.
So for this, simply go ahead
and say that price,
this is the price that I have.
And this is going to be multiplied
by whatever the VAT rate is.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to say 100 plus VAT
rate and we're going to go
ahead and divide it by 100 so
you get the percentage in the
VAT rate.
All right?
So pretty basic maths.
If you don't want it, you can
do different maths as well.
That is totally, totally fine.
But what I'm doing is 100.
I shouldn't be explaining this.
You can use any other methods.
If you prefer to multiply it
by zero point, whatever
the VAT rate, you can try that.
But let's just say we have the orders
and in the orders we are
going to go ahead and put
up an array or list in this case.
So first order is of 100, then we
have 150, then we have maybe 200.
So we can use a simple loop
to calculate that.
So for price in orders,
just like that, feel free
to call it whatever you like.
Order in orders, price in orders,
whatever you want to have.
And for this, for each one
of them we are going to go ahead
and create a final or final amount.
Final amount would be
better word here.
And that is calculated by our
method which says add vet.
And for this you go ahead and say
the price is going to be like this.
So we can just go ahead and give
this as a variable just like that.
And we'll say we
added 10% of the VAT.
So there we go, we have added the 10
and then finally we go ahead
and print out a nice message print.
There we go.
We'll use a formatted string
and we'll go ahead and say original,
original and the original value is
price Price final with VAT
is going to be final, not finally.
Make sure you keep an eye on that
or, or in this case final amount.
There we go.
Don't worry about this.
It's just auto formatted.
This is the code that we have.
My code auto wrap setup
in case you also want that.
Click on the view and we
have this world wrap.
Pretty easy.
Let's go ahead and run this
and see what happens with this.
Have we done any mistake?
This one is 05 traces.
And there we go.
So original was
10 and we have added 110.
Pretty good.
Accurate 10% VAT.
150, 165 again pretty good.
Pretty easy calculation for this
200 we got 220 easy calculation.
So at least we can verify that
10% VAT is getting added.
So whatever the math formula we
have added it actually is working.
So this was all about functions.
You don't realize it but we
have covered so much of
in depth about the function.
We have covered about
the readability, reducing
the complexity, segregation
of the complexity also known
as separation of concern.
We have also seen how return
and print are different in
functions, how to define a function.
So so many activities, so many
mini challenges we have done.
I hope you have enjoyed them and make
sure you rate us as well
because your rating is something
that will help me to make the best
course in the world on Python.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.